Welcome back.
I wanted to talk to you quickly about a very important topic for a developer and that is debugging debugging
is the act of looking over code.
Understanding what it's doing and figuring out why it's not acting as expected or maybe it's not even
running maybe you're getting errors or maybe something that the user does on a Web site is triggering
a weird behavior.
That's what debugging is frightening out why the program isn't acting the way it is.
And when you work as a developer a lot of your time is spent debugging.
So it's a very important topic and I want to talk about some of the strategies that we can use for debugging
I have over here a pretty complex function and frankly unless you've had a lot of experience with JavaScript
This is a pretty hard function to understand.
Let's say that you get into work and somebody says hey I don't I don't know what's going on with this
function.
Can you look into it.
And you have to figure out what it does and whether it's working fine or not.
So I'm going to take you through the steps that I would use to debug this code.
Maybe it's working fine maybe it's not.
But I want to understand what this piece of code does so the first thing I would do is just read it.
I say OK.
We we're assigning a variable and it looks like we have an array.
It is a nested array so there's an array inside of an array and it looks like this code wants to do
something called flattened.
OK.
We know that reduce from what we've learned before a is the accumulator I can change the name.
So it makes more sense to me.
OK accumulator.
Perfect.
And B is will what is B B is this right.
Because we're iterating looping over the first array which so it gives us three arrays so I can just
say all right here
now.
I also see that within this reduce I have the accumulator I have the array and I want the accumulator
to start off with an empty array.
That makes sense so far.
So the accumulator is gonna be an empty array when we start off and what we're going to do is we're
gonna do empty array dot com cat.
And if you remember con cat attaches the contents of an array into whatever is being the cat.
One thing I can do is open up this function so that now instead of just having one line I can say console
dot log array and we'll find out what array is and we'll also say console log accumulator we'll say
accumulator.
All right so we have the console opened and we also want to make sure that we're returning this because
we removed it from a single line which already implicitly means return to making it two lines.
OK.
So let's just refresh and add this function and see if we can get some console logs to figure out what
it's doing.
There's going to be three looping is that we see and in the first looping it looks like it says the
array is 0 1 and the accumulator is the empty array.
Okay that makes sense and then we see the second loop around the 2 and 3 array which is here gets looped
around and the accumulator now has 0 and 1.
So it looks like after the first loop through I've added the zero and one of the array into the empty
array which is the accumulator OK.
And then the last pass through it which is four and five.
I now attach the array of four and five into the accumulator which has 0 1 2 3.
So it looks like what we're doing is we're grabbing each array and we're adding it into the accumulator
and because it looks something like this.
So this is what it would look like in the first path through we're just using the cat function to join
the arrays 0 on 1 so that we are funding the array so that means instead of having an array inside of
an array we can just completely flattened everything.
That means that with Flint if I look at what it does well it just finds 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 awesome.
There's one other trick I want to show you and that is instead of using console log you can use something
called debugger and you notice that the color turned red which means yep it's a javascript keyword.
And what this allows you to do.
Well let's see what happens when I run this function going to refresh your and I'm going to run it well
what just happened when the JavaScript engine in the browser runs into the word debugger it stops.
It's a it's a word that tells whatever is reading this file to hey stop whatever you're doing just freeze
and it opens up the window for us exactly where it's stopped.
So let me make this full screen and show you it stops in the middle of its execution but we see that
here accumulator is an empty array because while we started it and the array is 0 and 1.
Now I have a couple options.
I can hit play which resumes the entire thing where I can hit.
Step over and let's see what happens with step over.
It goes to the next line and if I click again it goes to the next line and now I see that the accumulator
is 0 and 1 and the array is now 2 and 3.
So I know that in the next line the accumulator.
Well I changed this to a array by mistake but this will be the accumulator will be 0 and 1 dot.com Cat
2 and 3 and I can keep stepping through this and see how the parameters change and literally go through
the entire function.
Let's close that down fight.
Bring this back to the way it was which is the accumulator
make this full screen all right.
So Array 01 accumulator is an empty array.
I'm going to step through
that change accumulators now 0 1 array 2 3 and I keep stepping through and I notice exactly what's happening
in the code and when it's done executing it returns and look at that we have our console back.
Isn't that cool debugger allows us to literally go into the function and see what happened step by step
as I return this to the way it was
I wanted to take this with you and understand that although when you first see something like this it's
overwhelming.
With enough time and using console and debugger you're able to understand what a function does.
And if it's doing something that you don't expect to do or is doing something wrong you can use these
techniques to fix it.
It's a very useful skill that you're going to use a lot of.
So good luck.
Have fun out there by.